hi I'm Tamara the scope your solar storm
forecast for the week of April
nineteenth the Sun has been a buzz of
activity this week including two m-class
flares that have launched earthward
directed solar storms now when we look
more closely at those M flares BAM right
there there's the m1 that happened late
on the 16th from region 20 35 now region
2036 started becoming more active you
start seeing it flaring a little bit
more boom that lets off an ejection and
then another BAM right there there's the
7.3 the thing was huge you can see in
the close-up there is a dimming region
as this thing ejection lifts off so
there is an earth word directed solar
storm now switching to our flare
indicator you can see there really
hasn't been much M Flare activity until
let em 7.3 and that's because this
region is growing incredibly rapidly and
when we actually look at the blast waves
coming off of the Sun you can see this
thing is huge its massive and live wave
propagates literally all the way across
the surface of the Sun on the southern
hemisphere so it makes you think that
this thing is big but that is probably
going to go south of us switching to
coronagraphs you can see that solar
storm being blown out the three solar
radii it looks like it's pretty much
going south of us the halo is marked in
red here you don't really see much going
to the north now here's that halo again
but when we switch out to 15 solar radii
you can see there really is a lot of
material going both north and south of
us so this looks more like a direct hit
than we actually thought before now
switching to our prediction model this
is animal the top panel is density the
bottom panel is velocity you can see
those two solar storms coming out the
second of which is actually two solar
storms that have merged so we plan to
get hit by three solar storms and kind
of a rapid bubble my muffin succession
so expecting the hit to start around
with Layton on the 19th into the 20th so
expect that your GPS units will give you
some issues satellite internet and phone
might have some problems over the next
couple days until these solar storms
pass through now because of that M 7.3
flare we are in the midst of a proton
radiation storm it has reached Noah's s
one minor storm threat alert and it's
affecting high latitude navigation but
don't worry the astronauts are safe the
highest energy stuff you see in the blue
and green lines are actually decaying
now so they're okay but anybody who
might be a high-risk airline flight
passenger who has to go to a
long-duration international flight that
flies over the poles and in these
regions please make sure you take this
into consideration
duration in your flight plans over the
next few days until this dies down until
these solar storms pass us so what else
does the Sun have in store for us this
week well these are synoptic charts that
show all of the active regions all over
the Sun the two vertical lines to note
the east and west limbs and they bracket
the earth field of view now when we flip
these charts into motion you can see
there's just a ton of active regions
that are transiting the earth view part
of the disk right now and that active
clustered continues to grow especially
if you watch for round region 2036 you
see some really new growth that's where
that m 7.3 flare occurred and that's
going to continue to grow and probably
give us more activity also on the east
side the lemon you actually have two new
active regions that are coming into view
now region 44 and 45 right now they're
stable but they may start video players
for us if they continue to grow and as
we return to the disk you can see their
first side is absolutely smothered in
active regions this week and as this
fast-growing cluster continues to rotate
to the west we will have a continued
chance for proton radiation storms is 10
with these M flares no one's giving us
about a sixty percent chance over the
next three days to get em flares and
then of course we've got two new regions
that are rotating interview so those
could be back to players in the coming
days as well now I just wanted to show
you how fast these regions have been
growing over the earth disk this week
you can see this is region 20 35 and you
can see 23-6 beginning to pop and all of
these little white lightning that's
electromagnetic energy it's feeding back
and causing these M flares so this is
why we're going to have a sixty percent
chance of em flares even over the coming
days and as these things continue to
rotate off the less level so this week
looks to be pretty exciting we have
multiple solar storms on the way
including one that's about to hit us
momentarily so happy easter weekend
everybody on the bad side expect gps and
traffic service issues also if you have
satellite internet or phone you can have
some service issues with that and the
new ham operators you poor things you're
going to be slammed on top of the solar
storm with this proton radiation storm
that's going to cause communication
problems for you over the next 48 hours
or so but on the good side expect some
chance for some gorgeous aurora that
should brighten your easter holiday I'm
tamatha schoo thank you for watching